## Standalone test of visual balance sheet using d3

### Operation:
To run, execute:
```  
    ./server
```  
and then browse to: localhost:8020

The interactive scaling of values is only for testing purposes and not meant
to be part of a production UI.

### Theory and Objectives:
The mere use of open source money based on private credit is an advantage for
those who want to maximize control over their financial independence.  But
there is an additional benefit that can be provided by the MyCHIPs user app.

People manage their finances best when they have
  - full visibility and understanding of their fiscal fitness at all times;
  - a measurable, objective goal they can shoot for.

As an example, many people have a goal of earning enough money in the next
two weeks to make a house payment, cover recurring bills, and have a little
left over for groceries.  But that approach doesn't do much to develop one's
ability to contemplate a vacation to Fiji, a recreational vehicle or other
luxuries that enhance our lives and ability to choose.

In order to afford those kinds of things, we need a reliable mechanism for 
saving.  The normal way financial managers do this is through the notion of
"net worth."  It represents our net savings or the difference between what
we have earned so far and what we have irretrievably spent.

But most regular people have no idea what their net worth is.  And many
don't really even want to.  So the idea with the visual balance sheet is to
create a nice looking picture with a little circle in the middle.  

The objective is to turn that circle a nice color of blue--the bluer, the
better.  If it is blue, you are good shape.  Chances are you can find a way
to get some of those luxuries you want and need.

The rest of the graph serves as detail for how we get to the net worth
value.

We can store some value in the thin CHIP layer on the outside.  But this is
short term--not something as reliable over the long run.  People can die
and companies can go out of business.  That's not where we want to store
most of our critial value.

The safest place to store value is in hard assets like a home or some other 
durable item.  Some might also want to store some value in fiat currency or 
cryptocurrency.  All of that matters and is part of out net worth.

So the hope is to "gamify" responsible financial behavior so people can 
enjoy developing sustainable financial behaviors.  The graph also can stand
as a launching spot for activities like adding new trading partners and
sending or receiving CHIPs.
